Update Readme file (new template) (#1)
DevExpress-Examples/wpf-grid-resize-rows-using-splitter: Readme.md

[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/📖_How_to_use_DevExpress_Examples-e9f6fc?style=flat-square)](https://docs.devexpress.com/GeneralInformation/403183)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/💬_Leave_Feedback-feecdd?style=flat-square)](#does-this-example-address-your-development-requirementsobjectives)
<!-- default badges end -->

# WPF Data Grid – Resize Row Height

> This example implements resizable rows in a DevExpress WPF [Grid](https://docs.devexpress.com/WPF/DevExpress.Xpf.Grid.GridControl). Users can interactively change the height of individual grid rows (similar to resizing columns) and retain these changes for a consistent user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example implements resizable rows in a DevExpress WPF [Grid](https://docs.devexpress.com/WPF/DevExpress.Xpf.Grid.GridControl). Users can interactively change the height of individual grid rows (similar to the way columns are resized) and retain these changes for a consistent user experience.
```

![Resize Row Height with a Splitter](./Images/resize-row-height.gif)

## Implementation Details

### Create a Resizable Control

> The `ResizableDataRow` control implements the `IResizeHelperOwner` interface to work with `ResizeHelper`. The control stores the current row height in the `RowHeight` property and updates this value when the splitter moves.

Reviewer: ``The `ResizableDataRow` control implements the `IResizeHelperOwner` interface to work with `ResizeHelper`.``

I have one more question. Do you think we need to add an explanation that explains what `ResizeHelper` does? For example:

"...to work with `ResizeHelper`, which ... ."

Or if `ResizeHelper` has a dedicated page, maybe we can link to it?
Let me know what you think.

Author: Yes, we can add this extra info. The final text looks as follows:

The `ResizableDataRow` control implements the `IResizeHelperOwner` interface to work with еру `ResizeHelper` class, which handles mouse-based row resizing. The control stores the current row height in the `RowHeight` property and updates this value when a user moves the splitter.

Reviewer: It looks like "**epy** `ResizeHelper` class" is a typo. Should it be "_each_ `ResizeHelper` class"?

Author: Sorry, it was THE but in ru keyboard

Reviewer: I see now. Can you apply the change?

```csharp
public class ResizableDataRow : Control, IResizeHelperOwner {
    public static readonly DependencyProperty RowHeightProperty =
        DependencyProperty.RegisterAttached("RowHeight", typeof(double), typeof(ResizableDataRow), new PropertyMetadata(20d));

    double IResizeHelperOwner.ActualSize { get => RowHeight; set => RowHeight = value; }
    void IResizeHelperOwner.ChangeSize(double delta) {
        RowHeight = Math.Min(300, Math.Max(20, RowHeight + delta));
    }
    // ...
}
```

### Persist Row Height with an Attached Property

> The `RowHeight` attached property stores the height value in the `RowState` object. The grid uses this value to restore the row height after scrolling or refreshing. The `ResizableDataRow` control gets and sets the row height through the `RowState`:

Reviewer: Is `RowState` a property? If so, can we add the word "property" at the end?

Author: Yes,  [RowState](https://docs.devexpress.com/WPF/DevExpress.Xpf.Grid.RowData.RowState) is a property of the `RowData` class.

Author: I will add the "property" word at the end.

Reviewer: Thank you

```csharp
public static void SetRowHeight(DependencyObject element, double value) {
    element.SetValue(RowHeightProperty, value);
}

public static double GetRowHeight(DependencyObject element) {
    return (double)element.GetValue(RowHeightProperty);
}
```

### Define a Row Template

> The [`DataRowTemplate`](https://docs.devexpress.com/WPF/DevExpress.Xpf.Grid.TableView.DataRowTemplate) contains a `ContentControl` that displays the default row content and a `ResizableDataRow` control with a `RowSplitter` to change the row height:

Reviewer: `DataRowTemplate` links to the **TableView.DataRowTemplate Property** page. When you say "contains a `ContentControl`", can a property (`DataRowTemplate`) actually _contain_ a control?

Author: Right, a property itself does not "contain" a control — it holds a template definition that is applied to each data row.
It’s clearer to say that the template defined in the `DataRowTemplate` property includes those elements. I can rewrite it in the following way:

The template assigned to the [DataRowTemplate](https://docs.devexpress.com/WPF/DevExpress.Xpf.Grid.TableView.DataRowTemplate) property defines a `ContentControl` that displays the default row content and a `ResizableDataRow` control with a `RowSplitter` to change the row height:

Reviewer: Sounds better, thank you
